---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---
Angus, G. E. and Thurlbeck, W. M. (1972). Number of alveoli in the human lung. Journal of Applied Physiology, 32, 483.

Dubois, A. B., Botelho, S. Y., Bedell, G. N., Marshall, R., and Comroe, J. H. (1956a). A rapid plethysmographic method for measuring thoracic gas volume: a comparison with an nitrogen washout method for measuring functional residual capacity in normal subjects. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 35, 322.

——, and Comroe, J. H. (1956b). A new method for measuring airway resistance in man using a body plethysmograph. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 35, 327.

Engel, L. A., Menkes, H., Wood, L. D. H., Utz, G., Joubert, J., and Macklem, P. T. (1972). Gas mixing during breath holding studied by intrapulmonary gas sampling. Journal of Applied Physiology, 35, 9.

Fowler, W. S. (1948). Lung function studies. II. The respiratory dead-space. American Journal of Physiology, 154, 405.

Giacomelli-Maltoni, G., Melandri, C., Prodi, V., and Tarroni, G. (1972). Deposition efficiency of monodisperse particles in human respiratory tract. American Industrial Hygiene Association Journal, 33, 603.

Green, M., Mead, J., and Turner, J. M. (1974). Variability of maximum expiratory flow-volume curves. Journal of Applied Physiology, 37, 67.

Atkinson, J. L. and Lapp, N. L. (1970). Time-pulse generator for flow-volume curves. Journal of Applied Physiology, 29, 109.

Kory, R. C., Callahan, R., Boren, H. G., and Syner, J. C. (1961). Clinical spirometry in normal men. American Journal of Medicine, 30, 243.

——, Smith, J. R., and Callahan, R. (1966). Quoted in: Gaensler, E. A., and Wright, G. W. (1966). Evaluation of respiratory impairment. Archives of Environmental Health, 12, 146.

Landahl, H. D. (1950). On the removal of airborne droplets by the human respiratory tract. I. The lung. Bulletin of Mathematical Biophysics, 12, 43.

Lippmann, M. and Albert, R. E. (1969). The effect of particle size on the regional deposition of inhaled aerosols in the human respiratory tract. American Industrial Hygiene Association Journal, 30, 257.

Matsuba, K. and Thurlbeck, W. M. (1971). The number and dimensions of small airways in nonemphysematous lungs. American Review of Respiratory Disease, 104, 516.

Milic-Emili, J., Henderson, J. A. M., Dolovich, M. B., Trop, D., and Kaneko, K. (1966). Regional distribution of inspired gas in the lung. Journal of Applied Physiology, 21, 749.

Morrow, P. E. (Chairman) (1966). Report of task group on lung dynamics to ICRP. Deposition and retention models for internal dosimetry of the human respiratory tract. Health Physics, 12, 173.

Needham, C. D., Rogan, M. C., and McDonald, I. (1954). Normal standards for lung volumes, intrapulmonary gas-mixing, and maximum breathing capacity. Thorax, 9, 313.

Ogilvie, C. M., Forster, R. E., Blakemore, W. S., and Morton, J. W. (1957). A standardized breath holding technique for the clinical measurement of the diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 36, 1.

Palmes, E. D. (1973). Measurement of pulmonary air spaces using aerosols. Archives of Internal Medicine, 131, 76.

——, Altshuler, B., and Nelson, N. (1967). Deposition of aerosols in the human respiratory tract during breath holding. Inhaled Particles and Vapours II, edited by C. N. Davies, p. 339. Pergamon Press, London and New York.

——, Goldring, R. M., Wang, C. S., and Altshuler, B. (1971). Effect of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on rate of deposition of aerosols in the lung during breath holding. Inhaled Particles III, Vol. I, p. 123, edited by W. H. Walton. Unwin, Old Woking.

——, and Wang, C. S. (1971). An aerosol inhalation apparatus for human single breath deposition studies. American Industrial Hygiene Association Journal, 32, 43.

——, Goldring, R. M., and Altshuler, B. (1973). Effect of depth of inhalation on aerosol persistence during breath holding. Journal of Applied Physiology, 34, 356.

Radford, E. P. (1955). Ventilation standards for use in artificial respiration. Journal of Applied Physiology, 7, 451.

Seaton, A. (1972). Pulmonary capillary blood volume in women: normal values and the effect of oral contraceptives. Thorax, 27, 75.

——, Lapp, N. L., and Morgan, W. K. C. (1972). Relationship of pulmonary impairment in simple coal workers' pneumoconiosis to type of radiographic opacity. British Journal of Industrial Medicine, 29, 50.

Thurlbeck, W. M. (1967). The internal surface area of nonemphysematous lungs. American Review of Respiratory Disease, 95, 765.

Wang, C. S., Altshuler, B., and Palmes, E. D. (1968). The distribution and deposition of particles suspended between parallel plane surfaces. Journal of Colloid and Interface Science, 26, 41.

Weibel, E. R. (1963). Morphometry of the Human Lung. Academic Press, New York, NY.

Requests for reprints to: Dr. N. LeRoy Lapp, M.D., Appalachian Laboratory for Occupational Respiratory Diseases, PO Box 4292, Morgantown, West Virginia 26505, USA.