---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---
Instrumentation

The survey contained the names of the applicants for the vacancy, questions about demographic information for each respondent, six evaluation items for each applicant, and space for respondents to provide additional comments regarding each applicant.

Both versions of the survey required a certification by the respondent that they had rated the applicants as required by the bar’s Professional Rule 8.2. Specific instructions regarding the certification were provided:

“Please refer to Professional Conduct Rule 8.2 concerning your obligation to provide truthful and candid opinions on the qualifications or integrity of these applicants.”

Respondents evaluated applicants in six areas of performance included in the survey using a five-point Likert scale that ranged from Poor (1) to Excellent (5). Detailed descriptions of the meaning of each point on the Likert scale were provided for each of the performance areas. The scale and instructions for respondents were:

“Please rate the applicant on each of the following qualities by selecting the number that best represents your evaluation. Applicants should be evaluated on each quality separately. Use the ends of the scales as well as the middle. The tendency to rate an applicant “excellent” or “poor” on every trait should be avoided since each person has strengths and weaknesses. If you cannot rate the applicant on any one quality, leave that one blank.”

<table>
  <tr>
    <th></th>
    <th>(1)<br>Poor</th>
    <th>(2)<br>Deficient</th>
    <th>(3)<br>Acceptable</th>
    <th>(4)<br>Good</th>
    <th>(5)<br>Excellent</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Professional Competence</th>
    <td>Lacking in knowledge and/or effectiveness</td>
    <td>Below-average performance occasionally</td>
    <td>Possesses sufficient knowledge and required skills</td>
    <td>Usually knowledgeable and effective</td>
    <td>Meets the highest standards for knowledge and effectiveness</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Integrity</th>
    <td>Unconcerned with propriety and/or appearance, or acts in violation of codes of professional conduct</td>
    <td>Appears lacking in knowledge of ethical codes of conduct and/or unconcerned with propriety or appearance at times</td>
    <td>Follows codes of professional conduct, respects propriety and appearance of propriety at all times</td>
    <td>Above-average awareness of ethics, holds self to higher standard than most</td>
    <td>Outstanding integrity and highest standards of conduct</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Fairness</th>
    <td>Often shows strong bias for or against some person or groups</td>
    <td>Displays, verbally or otherwise, some bias for or against groups or persons</td>
    <td>Free of substantial bias or prejudice against groups or persons</td>
    <td>Above-average ability to treat all persons and groups impartially</td>
    <td>Unusually fair and impartial to all groups</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Judicial Temperament</th>
    <td>Often lacks compassion, humility, or courtesy</td>
    <td>Sometimes lacks compassion, humility, or courtesy</td>
    <td>Possesses appropriate compassion, humility, and courtesy</td>
    <td>Above-average compassion, humility, and courtesy</td>
    <td>Outstanding compassion, humility, and courtesy</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Suitability of Experience</th>
    <td>Has little or no suitable experience</td>
    <td>Has less than suitable experience</td>
    <td>Has suitable experience</td>
    <td>Has highly suitable experience</td>
    <td>Has the most suitable experience for this position</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Overall Rating</th>
    <td>Has few qualifications for this position</td>
    <td>Has insufficient qualifications for this position</td>
    <td>Has suitable qualifications for this position</td>
    <td>Has highly suitable qualifications for this position</td>
    <td>Has exceptionally high qualifications for this position</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Confidentiality and Data Safety

The survey introduction included a statement that reassured respondents of the confidentiality of their responses. Confidentiality is also a paramount concern at ISER and translated into specific procedures related to data security. Because data such as those collected through the judicial selection survey are of a sensitive nature, ISER has rigorous procedures to protect data. Specifically, paper surveys are kept in a lockable file cabinet located in a locked office. Data are kept locked at all times except when being used for data entry or related purposes. Organizational policies and procedures highlight the requirement for confidentiality and ensure that only staff involved with the project have access to the data. Online data and data that have been entered from paper surveys are maintained on a secure server.