---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---
Mission:
We link entrepreneurs and small businesses to Washington state agencies by providing free and accessible services that will help YOU succeed.

Vision:
We envision Washington state being the best place to do business.

Values:
We are listening to businesses, then driving action to make it easier to do business in the state of Washington.

Who are the Liaisons?

Governor’s Office for Regulatory Innovation and Assistance
Hugo Nicolas
(360) 584-3698
hugo.nicolas@gov.wa.gov
Services:
Assistance with local, state, and federal business licensing regulations and environmental permitting.

Dept. of Labor & Industries
Andrea Munoz
1-800-987-0145
Andrew Bryan
1-800-987-0145
smallbusiness@lni.wa.gov
Services:
Regulate Worker Compensation; employment standards & policies; workplace safety & health, & contractor registration.

Dept. of Revenue - Business Licensing Service
Kim Johnson
(360) 705-6615
kimberlyj@dor.wa.gov
Services:
One-stop state & city business licensing services.

Dept. of Revenue - Other
Tom Wieland
(360) 705-6603
tomw@dor.wa.gov
Services:
Business excise taxes, reseller permits, & tax incentives/credits.

Employment Security Dept.
Nino Gray Jr.
(425) 410-4955
nino.gray@esd.wa.gov
Services:
Unemployment Insurance, Paid Family Medical Leave, Labor Market Info, Work-Source program.

Dept. of Enterprise Services
Shana Barehand
(360) 407-7926
shana.barehand@des.wa.gov
Services:
Doing business with the state: how to get approved to contract & provide goods or services to the state.

Dept. of Commerce
Lynn Longan
(360) 490-1590
lynn.longan@commerce.wa.gov
Services:
Improve economic development, export assistance, innovation, trade, & funding for small businesses.

Commission of African American Affairs
Ed Prince
(360) 725-5663
ed.prince@caaa.wa.gov
Services:
Improving the policies, programs, & services of the African American Community.

Commission of Asian Pacific American Affairs
Toshiko Hasegawa
(206) 377-9583
toshiko.hasegawa@capaa.wa.gov
Services:
Improve the well-being, educational, health, & economic development of the Asian Pacific Americans Community.

Liquor & Cannabis Board
Beth Lehman
(360) 664-1624
Misti Jones
(360) 664-1628
misti.jones@lcb.wa.gov
Services:
Regulate licensing and permitting services for Liquor, Cannabis, Tobacco, and vapor products.

Minority & Women Business Enterprises
Curtis Brown
(360) 701-0878
curtis.brown@omwbe.wa.gov
Nicky Delong
(564) 669-9022
nicky@omwbe.wa.gov
Services:
Certification as a business owned by a minority, woman, or disadvantaged individual for federal and state contracting; Linked Deposit Loan Program and Supplier Diversity.

Secretary of State - Corporations & Charities
(360) 725-0377
corps@sos.wa.gov
www.sos.wa.gov/corporations
Services:
Register Corporate Business Entities, Charitable Organizations, Trademarks, and Domestic Partnerships.

Washington Health Benefit Exchange
Marie Cooper
(360) 688-1548
Marie.Cooper@WAHealthExchange.org
Services:
Operates WA Healthplanfinder, where individuals and families can get health insurance and check for possible subsidies to lower costs.

Dept. of Fish & Wildlife
Peter Vernie
(360) 902-2203
peter.vernie@dfw.wa.gov
Services:
Fishing & hunting permits, Hydraulic Project Approval, enforced regulations to conserve & protect resources.

Dept. of Health
Erin Brewster
erin.brewster@doh.wa.gov
Services:
Provide public health & safety education, vital records/certificates, health care licensing, & enforcement.