---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: True
is_diagram: False
---
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Dept. of Natural Resources</th>
    <th>LGBTQ Commission</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Tami Miketa<br>(360) 902-1415<br>tamara.miketa@dnr.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Licensing & regulations related to public land, aquatics, forests, commercial development, geology, & recreation.</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Improve the LGBTQ community and ensure an effective means of advocating for equity in all aspects of state government.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Dept. of Transportation</th>
    <th>Dept. of Licensing</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Yolanda Brooks<br>(360) 522-0856<br>brooks@ywdot.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Provides permits related to transportation & highways & regulate public transportation such as motor carrier safety.</td>
    <td>Bill Dutra<br>(360) 664-6510<br>bdutra@dol.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Drivers Licenses & ID Cards<br>Professional Licenses such as Cosmetology, Real Estate, Notaries, Architects.<br>Click here for a complete list.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Veterans Affairs</th>
    <th>Commission of Hispanic Affairs</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Shamekia Moultrie<br>(360) 701-1788<br>shamekia.m@dva.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Provide benefits, resources, and programs for Veterans such as Certification and Veterans Linked Deposit Program.</td>
    <td>Nancy Aguilar<br>(360) 725-5661<br>Nancy.RochaAguilar@cha.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Improving the development of public policy & government services to the Hispanic Community.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Dept. of Social & Health Services - Child Support</th>
    <th>Dept. of Agriculture</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Mitchell Dillard<br>(360) 664-5043<br>mdillar6@dshs.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Regulate New Hire Reporting Program, child support services, and administer medical, housing, or food assistance.</td>
    <td>Laura Raymond<br>(206) 256-6157<br>lraymond@agr.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Provide licenses & permits for agricultural products, regulate food safety, & comply with WSDA & USDA.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Emergency Management Division</th>
    <th>Dept. of Ecology</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Taylor Hennessey<br>(253) 512-7054<br>taylor.hennessey@mil.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Provide emergency response coordination, disaster analysis, and direct the use of state resources.</td>
    <td>Laurie Dumar<br>(360) 480-0924<br>ldum461@ecy.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Provide environmental permitting & certifications, sustain healthy land, air & water, regulate waste & pollution.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Human Rights Commission</th>
    <th>Washington State Lottery</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>(800) 233-3247<br>front.desk@hum.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Investigates discriminatory practices based on race, creed, color, national origin, and families with children.</td>
    <td>Lance Anderson<br>(360) 480-5890<br>landerson@walottery.com</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Provide licenses for Lottery Retailers, enforcement of regulations, and assistance with sales, marketing, and accounting.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Insurance Commissioner</th>
    <th>Women's Commission</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Jeff Baughman<br>(360) 725-7165<br>jeffb@oic.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>License & regulate Insurance Producers; provide consumer protection and education.</td>
    <td>Regina Malveaux<br>(360) 902-0382<br>regina.malveaux@wswc.wa.gov</td>
    <td>Services:<br>Address the problems & needs of women, such as discrimination, harassment, compensation & job opportunities & the specific needs of women of color.</td>
  </tr>
</table>