---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---
where \( \beta = 1/k_B T \), with \( k_B \) Boltzmann's constant. This equation must be supplemented with an approximation for \( b(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) \), the so-called bridge function, whose formal definition as an infinite series in density\(^{15}\) offers only modest practical guidance. Most approximate closures for \( c \) define \( b \) implicitly.

The numerical evaluation of the OZ equation is simpler in Fourier transform representation, which deconvolutes the \( r \) integral. Thus, in transform space, Eq. (3) becomes
\[
\widetilde{\gamma}(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) = \rho \int_0^{\infty} d\sigma_3 f(\sigma_3) \widetilde{c}(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_3) 
\widetilde{\gamma}(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_3) \widetilde{c}(k, \sigma_3, \sigma_2),
\]
with one remaining integration. We note that the Fourier transform of a circularly symmetric function in two dimensions becomes a Hankel transform,
\[
\widetilde{w}(k) = 2\pi \int_0^{\infty} dr\, rw(r)J_0(kr),
\]
where \( J_0(x) \) is the zero-order Bessel function; the inverse of (6) is
\[
w(r) = \frac{1}{2\pi} \int_0^{\infty} dk\, k \widetilde{w}(k)J_0(kr).
\]
The final integration in Eq. (5) can also be eliminated and the evaluation of the OZ equation reduced to algebra by now expanding all \( \sigma \)-dependent functions in orthogonal polynomials \( p_j(\sigma) \), \( j = 0, 1, 2, \ldots \), defined such that
\[
\int_0^{\infty} d\sigma f(\sigma)p_i(\sigma)p_j(\sigma) = \delta_{ij},
\]
where \( \delta_{ij} \) is the Kronecker delta. Then with
\[
\widetilde{\gamma}_i(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) = \sum_{j=0}^{\infty} \widetilde{\gamma}_{ij}(k,p_i(\sigma_1)p_j(\sigma_2))
\]
and a similar expansion of \( \widetilde{c}(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) \), Eq. (5) becomes
\[
\widetilde{\gamma}_{ij}(k) = \rho \sum_l [\widetilde{c}_{il}(k) + \widetilde{\gamma}_{il}(k)]\widetilde{c}_{lj}(k),
\]
or, in matrix notation,
\[
\Gamma(k) = \rho[\widetilde{C}(k) + \Gamma(k)]\widetilde{C}(k) = \rho \widetilde{C}(k)\widetilde{C}(k)[I - \rho \widetilde{C}(k)]^{-1}.
\]
In these equations \( \Gamma(k), \widetilde{C}(k) \) are symmetric matrices with elements \( \widetilde{\gamma}_{ij}(k), \widetilde{c}_{ij}(k) \) and \( I \) is the unit matrix. Orthogonality allows the easy inversion of Eq. (9) as
\[
\widetilde{\gamma}_{ij}(k) = \int d\sigma_1 d\sigma_2 f(\sigma_1)f(\sigma_2)\widetilde{\gamma}(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_2)p_i(\sigma_1)p_j(\sigma_2).
\]
Similar expansions and inversions hold for functions in \( r \) space.

With the substitution of the \( J_0 \) transforms (6) and (7) for the corresponding sine transforms, these ingredients for a polydisperse fluid in two dimensions are identical to those of a polydisperse fluid in three dimensions\(^{16}\) and can be solved with the same numerical procedures. The new feature, the Hankel transform, is evaluated using an orthogonality-preserving algorithm.\(^{17}\)

The generalized pair distribution function
\[
g(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) = \exp[-\beta \phi(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2)
+ \gamma(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) + b(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2)]
\]
is finally constructed from the self-consistent solution of the (OZ+closure) equations for the coefficients \( \gamma_{ij}(r) \). The thermodynamic quantities then directly computable from \( g \) are the internal energy \( U \),
\[
\frac{\beta U}{N} = \frac{1}{2\rho} \int dr d\sigma d\sigma' f(\sigma)f(\sigma')
\times g(r, \sigma, \sigma')\beta \phi(r, \sigma, \sigma'),
\]
and the pressure \( p \),
\[
\frac{\beta p}{\rho} = 1 - \frac{1}{4\rho} \int dr d\sigma d\sigma' f(\sigma)f(\sigma')
\times g(r, \sigma, \sigma') r \frac{d\beta \phi(r, \sigma, \sigma')}{dr}
\]
In addition, the isothermal compressibility \( K_T \),
\[
\frac{1}{\rho k_B T K_T} = \rho \left( \frac{\partial p}{\partial \rho} \right)_T
= 1 - \rho \int dr d\sigma d\sigma' f(\sigma)f(\sigma')c(r, \sigma, \sigma')
= 1 - \rho \widetilde{c}_{00}(0),
\]
is obtained from the direct correlation function.

Pair functions of interest can be expressed directly in terms of the computed coefficients. In particular, the number-number pair distribution function and the number-number structure factor\(^{18}\) are, respectively,
\[
g_{NN}(r) = \int d\sigma_1 d\sigma_2 f(\sigma_1)f(\sigma_2)g(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) = g_{00}(r),
\]
\[
S_{NN}(k) = \int d\sigma_1 d\sigma_2 [L(f(\sigma_1)\delta(\sigma_1 - \sigma_2)
+ \rho f(\sigma_1)f(\sigma_2)\widetilde{h}(k, \sigma_1, \sigma_2)] = 1 + \rho \widetilde{h}_{00}(k).
\]
Further, low order coefficients of \( g(r, \sigma_1, \sigma_2) \) can be given a physical interpretation. Thus, local fluctuations in density and size may be expressed in normalized form as
\[
\delta \rho(r) = \frac{1}{\rho} \left| \sum_{j=1}^N \delta(r - r_j) - \rho \right|,
\]
\[
\delta p_1(r) = \frac{1}{\sigma_{p_1} s} \left| \sum_{j=1}^N \sigma_j \delta(r - r_j) - \overline{\sigma} \rho \right|.
\]
Their spatial correlations are then given by