---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---

<!-- bbox: [22,42,978,958] -->
markdown
Concerning BASTARD CHILDREN, 21 Jac. 1, not to extend to this Province,
"  CLERGY RESERVES, Impl. Act 3 & 4 Vic., c. 78, certain parts of as to, repealed ..................................................... 301
"  COMMISSIONERS for taking affidavits to extend to Witnesses in Circuit Courts, L. C. ............................................. 892
"  CONS. MUN. LOAN FUND, application of, ............................ 920
CONSOLIDATED, c. 48, ss. 17, 18, U. C., to apply to works of Trans. Timber Co., ............................................................. 812
Concerning COPYRIGHTS, to relate to 18 Sept., 1841, .................... 897
"  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, not to prevent other remedies if damages not sought thereunder, ................................. 1000
"  CULLING OF LUMBER not to extend below Island of Orleans, ......... 587
"  DEBENTURES not to apply to Railways or Ecclesiastical Corps., 932
    May be cited as "The Debentures Regulation and Transfer Act," ..................... 933
"  EXTRADITION, to remain in force during 10th article of Ashburton Treaty, .................................................... 945
"  FISHERIES, to be called "Fisheries Act," ............................ 713
"  FORGERY. 5th Elizab., cap. 14, offences within — how punishable, .......................................................... 994
"  FRAUDULENT TRUSTEES—no proceedings under in certain cases except by sanction of Attorney General, ............. 975
"  GAS AND WATER Co. may be amended without prejudice, • 748
IMPERIAL. 3 & 4 Vic., c 78. See CLERGY RESERVES, supra.
    See also ACTS.
Concerning INSPECTORS OF ASYLUMS, &c., to be called "The Prison and Asylum Inspection Act," ......................... 1177
"  INTEREST, sections 3, 4, & 5, application of limited, ................. 683
"  J. P.'s. [qualification of,] to apply to past cases. Exception, 1041
"  JUVENILE OFFENDERS, proceedings in Recorder's Court not to affect, ............................................................ 1146
"  LAND SURVEYS, ss. 58–65, to apply to L. C., ......................... 874
"  LIBRARIES to apply to all since 30 Aug., 1851, ....................... 826
"  LOTTERIES to extend to publication of Foreign Schemes; but not to bona fide division of property in common, .......... 999
"  MAGISTRATES, appointment of, in remote parts to apply to J. P.'s. in and about the Gulf of St. Lawrence, ............. 1042
"  MECHANICS' INSTITUTIONS to apply to all since Aug. 30, 1851, 826
"  MILITIA, contravention of, not specified therein. Penalty Not to prevent indictment. ............................................. 455
"  OFFENCES against person and property, not to affect other remedies, ............................................................ 975
"  ORDNANCE LANDS transferred to the Province, 7 Vic., c. 11, repealed, .......................................................... 476
"  PAWNBROKERS, &c. to extend to xors, admors., &c., .......... 703
"  PRIV. LUN. ASYLUMS not to extend to Provincial or to Beauport Asylums, .................................................. 849
"  PROV. PENITENTIARY, provisions of, when applicable to section 9, ...... ..................................................... 1179
<!-- bbox_blk_end -->
