---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---
Lemma A.3. Under Hypotheses 1 and 2, for every \( \kappa \geq 2 \) and \( \delta > 0 \) we have that for every
\[
\gamma > d - 2 + \alpha,
\]
it holds
\[
\mathbb{E} \sup_{t \in [0,T]} |z^\delta_s(t)|_{\tilde{H}^\kappa} \leq c_{\kappa,\gamma}(T) \delta^{-\frac{\gamma}{2}}, \quad \delta \in (0,1).
\tag{A.8}
\]
Finally, by using again a factorization argument, for every \( s > 0 \) and \( \kappa > \frac{2}{s} \vee 1 \) we have
\[
|z^\delta_s(t)|_{\tilde{H}^{\kappa-s}(D)} \leq c \left( \int_0^T \sigma^{-(\frac{s}{2}-1)\frac{\kappa}{\kappa-1}} d\sigma \right)^{\kappa-1} \int_0^t |z^\delta_s(\sigma)|_{\tilde{H}^{\kappa-s}(D)} d\sigma \leq c(T) \int_0^t |z^\delta_s(\sigma)|_{\tilde{H}^{\kappa-s}(D)} d\sigma.
\]
Therefore, due to (A.4) we can conclude that the following result is true.

Lemma A.4. Under Hypotheses 1 and 2, for every \( s > 0, \delta \in (0,1) \) and \( \kappa \geq 1 \) we have that
\[
\mathbb{E} \sup_{t \in [0,T]} |z^\delta_s(t)|_{\tilde{H}^{\kappa-s}(D)} \leq c_{\rho}(T)
\begin{cases}
\log \delta^{-1}, & \text{if } d = 2, \\
\delta^{-(d-2)}, & \text{if } d \geq 3.
\end{cases}
\tag{A.9}
\]

References
[1] L. Bertini, P. Butt\`a, A. Pisante, Stochastic Allen-Cahn approximation of the mean curvature flow: large deviations upper bound, arXiv: 1604.02064v1 (2016).
[2] A. Budhiraja, P. Dupuis, V. Maroulas, Large deviations for infinite dimensional stochastic dynamical systems, Annals of Probability 36 (2008), pp. 1390–1420.
[3] S. Cerrai, Second order PDE’s in finite and infinite dimension, Lecture Notes in Mathematics Series 1762, Springer Verlag (2001).
[4] S. Cerrai, A. Debussche, Large deviations for the two-dimensional stochastic Navier-Stokes equation with vanishing noise correlation, arXiv: 1603.02527.
[5] S. Cerrai, M. Freidlin, Approximation of quasi-potentials and exit problems for multidimensional RDE’s with noise, Transactions of the AMS 363 (2011), pp. 3853–3892.
[6] G. Da Prato, A. Debussche, Strong solutions to the stochastic quantization equations, Annals of Probabability 31 (20013), pp. 1900–1916.
[7] G. Da Prato, J. Zabczyk, Stochastic Equations in Infinite Dimensions, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (1992).
[8] G. Da Prato, J. Zabczyk, Ergodicity for infinite-dimensional systems. London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series, 229, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1996.
[9] E.B. Davies, Heat kernels and spectral theory, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (1989).