---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: True
is_diagram: False
---
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Question</th>
    <th>Answer</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>May we purchase basic supplies, such as pens, pencils, paper, folders, etc. for the ESOL students?</td>
    <td>Instructional supplies may be purchased for a Title III supplemental program.<br><b>Please see Title III, Part A Sec. 3115(g).</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Is it allowable to use Title III funds to pay for administrative costs?</td>
    <td>Yes, although only 2% of the subgrant may be used on administrative costs.<br><b>Please see Title III, Part A Sec. 3115(b).</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Can we fund the same type of activities with both the Title IIIA English learner and the Immigrant grant funds, i.e. co-mingle the two grant funds?</td>
    <td>When planning an EL and an Immigrant program, the LEA must consider the purpose for which these funds were allocated. The activities must align with the purpose. If some immigrant students are also English learners, then the LEA could use some immigrant funds to fund EL-type activities. This would be considered co-mingling and should reflect the percentage of immigrants who are ELs.<br><b>Please see Title III, Part A Sec. 3115(e).</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Can we use Title IIIA & Migrant funds to split fund a middle school paraprofessional?</td>
    <td>Consider the following questions:
      <ul>
        <li>What does the job description say the paraprofessional will be doing?</li>
        <li>Will it be before/after/Saturday/summer schoolwork or during schoolwork?</li>
        <li>Are any of the migrant students also English learners?</li>
        <li>What is the percentage of migrant to EL students? Is this percentage reflected in the split position?</li>
        <li>What would the paraprofessional’s purpose be? How would it meet the purpose of the subgrants?</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>For the coming year, XXX School wants to provide professional learning for their ESOL teachers. They would also provide the same training to other teachers (non-ESOL). Title I is paying for the non-ESOL teachers’ professional learning. Can Title III be used for the ESOL teacher in terms of “supplement not supplant”?</td>
    <td>Since Title I funds will pay for the non-ESOL teachers’ PL, Title I would also need to fund the ESOL teachers’ PL. Using Title III funds in this scenario would constitute supplanting.<br><b>Please see Title III, Part A Sec. 3115(g).</b><br><b>Please see the Non-Regulatory Guidance: English Learners and Title III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), as amended by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA).</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>We are looking at the possibility of our Title III Coordinator attending the National ESEA Conference (formally the National Title I Conference) in XXXX; we just realized that the conference had expanded beyond Title I to cover other Federal Programs (including Title III). Would registration and travel be allowable as Title III expenses?</td>
    <td>Title III could fund a portion of the Title IIIA Coordinator’s registration and travel expenses for the National ESEA Conference, since only a portion of the conference addresses Title III topics. The LEA should consider the reasonable and necessary nature of this conference expenditure for a Title III program director.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Our district had a Feliz Navidad celebration for our EL Family Night. 100 EL parents attended. One of our activities was painting</td>
    <td>Title IIIA funds must be used to <b>enhance or supplement</b> the LEA’s <i>language instructional educational programs</i> and help build the parents’ capacity to help their child <i>learn</i></td>
  </tr>
</table>