---
primary_language: en
is_rotation_valid: True
rotation_correction: 0
is_table: False
is_diagram: False
---
Frequently Asked Questions about Title III, Part A Budgets

Note: The questions and answers provided in this FAQ are based on the available information as of the date below. As new information is available or GaDOE procedures are revised, this FAQ will be updated.

General Budget Questions

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Question</th>
    <th>Answer</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Where is the <i>Title III, Part A Self-Evaluation Report</i> that used to be due June 1?</td>
    <td>The former Self-Assessment Report (SAR) no longer exists as a separate document to submit but is now embedded in the Cross-functional Monitoring (CFM) process and an annual survey is sent to LEAs to report Title IIIA activities implemented each year. Data from this survey is submitted to USED.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>What should the Title III Director do regarding the completion report if the finance office is responsible for completing and submitting it?</td>
    <td>It is recommended that the LEA director review all the current year’s Title III (and immigrant, if applicable) expenditures in September and compare them to the most recently approved budget. If the program spent more than what was approved in any function/object code, then the director must submit a budget amendment, prior to September 30, to reflect the additional expenditures. For Title III, the program should not expend more than the approved budget in any Function or Object code on the completion report.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>What is meant by “Supplement not Supplant” in Title III, Part A?</td>
    <td>Title III requires that funds available under a subgrant be used to supplement the level of federal, state, and local public funds that, in the absence of such availability, would have been expended for programs for English learners (ELs) and immigrant students and in no case supplant such federal, state, and local public funds. For example, if an activity last year was paid with non-federal funds, the same activity this year cannot be paid with federal funds. LEA’s legal obligations to English learners must be paid with state/local funds, such as screening, serving, and testing EL students. In Title IIIA, supplement means “in addition to” ESOL; supplant means to fund something state/local/other federal funds should be funding.<br><b>Please see Title III, Part A Sec. 3115(g).</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>What should be included in the description for each budget line item to ensure cost principles (allowable, allocable, reasonable, necessary) are met?</td>
    <td>Include as much detail as possible to demonstrate that the cost is necessary to implement the program that meets the grant purpose, reasonable when compared to similar expenditures, allocable to a fund, and allowable under federal statute.<br><b>Please see the Title III Budget Guiding Questions and Checklist for more details.</b></td>
  </tr>
</table>